Complete MK5 R32 Buyers Guide
here we have a $3,700 mark 5 R32 that's right I only
paid $3,700 for this car and it's got me
wondering what kind of doofus would pay
$3,700 for a mark 5
R32 come on Jamie Jamie come on Jamie
there we go doofus also doofus if you're
Why MK5 R32 is so valuable
not familiar with the R32s you might
think $3,700 is way more than you should
spend on this 8 golf however the R32s
range anywhere from 10 to over
$20,000 making 3,700 bucks kind of a
steal we're going to go through all the
problems that this Mark 5 has and
basically you're going to get a mark 5
R32 buyer guide all right so here's how
we're going to approach this car let's
pretend that you're meeting up with some
Facebook Marketplace weirdo in a random
parking lot to buy their car look these
cars can be expensive but what's even
worse is buying the wrong one and having
to pay a ton more to get it fixed let's
How to properly inspect MK5 R32 Exterior
start on the outside now even if you
haven't been a mechanic for 800 years
looking at paint on a car is actually
pretty easy and anybody can do it when
it comes two tornado red this is going
to be one of your two major problems
that's peeling clear coat you can see it
on the quarter on the roof all over the
place on the spoiler back here basically
the whole car is probably going to have
clear coat problems this is not just a
mark 5 issue either my red R32 which is
a markv is worse much much worse but the
major thing you want to look at is
finding rust this car is from New York
so we have some pretty legitimate
cancers here I mean you can see it's all
Most Common MK5 R32 Rust Spots
bubbling on this rear quarter this spot
right here same thing on the passenger
side those are going to be one of your
two most common spots to find Rust so
this is the first place you want to look
when it comes to rust now mechanically
I'm good I don't mind fixing anything
when it comes to stuff like this I'm out
I don't even want to talk about how much
that car cost me to have the rust fixed
let's just say it would have been
cheaper to buy a really nice expensive
R32 than it was to buy that cheap one
let me show you the other place you
really got to look for rust on the mark
FS back on the hatch around the emblem
as well as
like the bottom of the window you really
want to look for Rusk now this one looks
pretty good but you saw that bubbling on
the other spot it's a dead giveaway it's
rusted here's the other spot that this
is a mark 5 problem in general even if
it wasn't a New York car just could be
anywhere right and that's going to be
right down here on the fender actually
you can probably even see a little bit
starting to form back in here the reason
this is such a bad spot is leaves and
debris get trapped behind the fender
liner and it just sits and it collects
water and moisture and basically rots
from the inside out look at the fenders
look at the door and then that spot on
the quarter panel those are the most
common spots that you're going to find
Rust R rust probably more likely because
of a repair that was done back there
than anything else but I'm telling you
mark fivs are really good or bad I guess
about rust in those spots this R32 has
How to Check MK5 R32 TPMS
at Wheels the atlas Wheels look great on
everything except the atlas oddly enough
more importantly not only do you want to
look at your wheels for damage like
someone that does drive by feel but keep
in mind Mark 5S have physical tire
pressure sensors in the wheel so if you
buy a mark 5 R32 that does not have tire
pressure sensors either you have a tire
pressure light on or someone has
deactivated the system which I don't
have any problem with you just want to
make sure you're aware of it another
really easy thing to look at that can be
a dead give away of problems is a
Common MK5 R32 Front End Damage
misaligned sunroof glass the front may
be too high the back may be too low it
may be tilted left or right all signs
that you could have a broken sunroof
track if you have that you probably also
have a water leak coming from the
sunroof also inspect around that sunroof
opening make sure you don't have any
rust there and while you're up here look
at the front of the windshield because
that's another place that is easily
damaged and you can have rust spots if
you're looking at a mark Mark 5 the cars
are old at this point right rust and
damage on the exterior are going to be
the most common issues that you want to
look for may not be a big deal for you
but it might also be a big deal like it
is for me because I hate rust I also
don't like sunroof so if it were up to
me this car would have no sunroof anyway
but yours is going to have a sunroof
especially if it's an R32 so also look
at all this clear coat spots this car so
fast rip the clear coat right off these
Rock chips on the hood are kind of
normal especially for a car with 166k on
it just be aware of it note it and
understand that you probably want to get
that stuff fixed so you don't have more
rust issues also the mark 5 R32 has this
kind of chrish Center Grill
unfortunately most of them are going to
be drilled with the front tag license
plate hole which I absolutely hate but
they are what they are the thing you
want to look at though is you'll notice
right here that's the coating on the
plastic that's coming off the biggest
problem is a lot of these kind of things
you can't get anymore and if you find
one used usually you got to pay a bunch
of money for it so not a deal breaker
for you maybe it is I don't know that's
up to you but at least you'll know and
you won't be surprised when this Grill
is $600 for a used one it might go
without saying but make sure all of the
lights in the car work and you'll notice
this headlight is super foggy we're
going to be able to fix that by sanding
it down and polishing it so I'm not
worried about that but one of these HID
bulbs being out or the modules being bad
they can be pretty expensive under the
Most Common MK5 R32 Engine Issues
hood we have a lot of stuff that we need
to look at before you do anything crazy
just take an overall look and make sure
everything's there this ducting piece
right here is really common to be
missing especially on the 2 L turbos
you'll also notice that we have no
battery under the hood that's in the
trunk we're missing the cover for the
jump start post this is not a big deal
but hey it's worth noting and maybe
noting things like this I'll save you a
little bit of money on the buy side it's
important to keep in mind the
inspections you're going to do back at
your place are likely going to be
different then when you meet up this
Facebook Marketplace weirdo so of course
the very first thing we're going to look
at is our engine oil we want to make
sure that the level is good and our
condition of the oil is also good I also
like to look really close at the
dipstick and make sure there's not a
bunch of crusty carbon buildup on it
that could be a sign of an engine that's
not well-maintained pained so in our
case looks like our oil level is good
the condition of the oil looks decent
nothing to worry about right this minute
but for sure we're going to end up doing
a full Fleet of maintenance on this car
I also like to take the oil cap off
inspect the backside of the oil cap make
sure this gasket here is not all crusty
and dry rotted cuz that can cause leaks
this is also a good opportunity to take
your pen light and shine it down in the
oil hole and see do you see a bunch of
sludge is this a poorly maintained
engine or do things look pretty good and
pretty clean you may also want to look
to see does it look like there's oil dye
in it if someone's added oil dye you
might have an engine that someone's been
chasing an oil leak on when I look at
the can variator I do see a little bit
of carbon buildup this is not totally
abnormal all this really says to me is
when we do our full maintenance we're
How to inspect MK5 R32 Intake
going to do an oil flush you might not
be able to do this in the middle of a
parking lot but if you can pull the air
filter out and inspect it you can see
this air filter top side looks pretty
dirty and while there's some dirt on it
it's not horrible normally what I'll do
is I'll take these and I'll drop them on
the ground see how much sand and debris
comes out of it something you're likely
not going to be able to see especially
with the car all put together is going
to be the condition of the brake fluid
this brake fluid's pretty green so we
know definitely need a brake fluid
service you can also look straight down
behind the air filter and see the cap
for the DSG filter on the transmission
you may need to get a new cap when you
do your service if you take this cover
off it Reveals All Your fuses and take a
look make sure the fuse isn't melted or
a relay is not completely scorched or if
you see something that doesn't match
might be a good indicator that there was
a problem and was fixed with aftermarket
parts the other things we want to look
at oil leaks this one is leaking from
Most Common MK5 R32 VR6 Oil leaks
the valve cover on the passenger side
that could be the valve cover gasket
that could also be a spark plug well
gasket either way it's going to be the
same repair so make note of it cuz you
don't want to let this go too
long this is what a clean under the
valve cover looks like I really just
wanted to include this engine in the
video because it's so awesome check your
Most Common MK5 R32 coolant problems
coolant make sure the level's correct
make sure it looks like it's pink or
purple and then I always disconnect
these connectors at the coolant bottle
and look inside the connector that way
you can look to see if there's any
coolant migration coming through here I
have said a lot of things are not a deal
breaker this might be cuz this could
make its way all the way into the cabin
of the car and just wreak havoc and
cause a real real real bad problem for
you the other thing we want to look at
is we want to look at our engine mount
now ours looks pretty collapsed it's
going to be an early repair that we do
Most Common MK5 R32 Engine Mount problems
on this car you can look at the bolts
make sure that the mount looks lined up
and you don't have any witness marks
exposed that would mean maybe this Bolt
was turned in recent time this doesn't
look like it's been moved at all
everything looks consistent but this
mount looks really collapsed you look at
how far away the piece that mounts to
the bracket of the engine is compared to
this one where there's almost no Gap at
all now in this parking lot you're also
probably not going to pull all the spark
plugs which would be awesome if you
could do what you do want to look at
though is take a good look at the
connectors this one here looks great
exactly what you'd want to see the next
cylinder over it's broken this is really
common on any VW and Audi with coil on
plug that could make replacing the spark
plugs a little bit more challenging
you'll also notice back here at the back
side of the engine is this just abyss of
hoses and wirings and Lord knows what
else take a real good look at these you
want to avoid anything being cracked
split or broken these could lead to
drivability problems check engine lights
and like I mentioned earlier with some
other stuff sometimes this stuff is not
available anymore and you may have to
end up making repair versus a proper
Full MK5 R32 Engine Inspection
replacement shine your flashlight down
on the drive belt side make sure
everybody's there you can only really do
so much on a visual inspection but if
you find the serpentine belt down here
is all frayed you definitely want to put
that high on the list of replacement
here's a really good tip and this
applies not just to Mark 5 not just to
R32 but almost all Volkswagen if you see
these stickers here on the core support
that's a good thing that means this core
support likely is the original one from
the car when a core support is replaced
they generally don't have any stickers
on them you got to get the stickers
separate of course it could be something
as simple as they ran over something and
broke it underneath or it could mean
there was severe front-end damage and
you'll want to be aware of that so you
can do a better inspection underneath
the car just like we looked at on the
passenger side of the engine look at the
driver's side of the engine for oil
leaks coolant leaks in our case it looks
like we got a little bit of an oil leak
from the valve cover back here but it's
leaking on on the other side too so we
have to fix that anyway in general
Volkswagen doesn't just have stuff
laying around it's properly secured and
if you find that they're not maybe
that's something you asked the previous
owner hey was any work done here to
cause this not to be put on correctly
you may not want to be quite that bold
to ask that way but I sure as heck would
How to check MK5 R32 Timing Chain Problems/stretch
be okay the final piece of our underhood
inspection actually involves sitting in
the car and using a scan tool I'm using
obd11 vcds is perfect too I really think
if you're going to look at an R32 really
any VW or Audi bring a scan tool this
could save you from a world of pain we
need to check our timing chain stretch
now I know timing chains don't stretch
they only wear it's referred to stretch
and all the documentation so we're going
with that so from the homepage you want
to hit this little blue icon down in the
bottom right that's going to bring up
our modules then we're going to go into
engine 01 we're going to check fault
because if you have like a timing check
fault that could be a deal breaker we're
going to go into live data we're going
to type in Channel 208 car running car
up to Temp when you check this we're
looking at field three which is intake
cam offset now what's cool about obd11
is if you scroll down a little bit
you'll see what the specification is
supposed to be minus 88kw plus 88kw
that's your range you need to be in
minus 2 perfect we're going to slide
over to 209 exhaust cam offset we're
good there too in general they should be
about three apart if you had something
that read minus 9 you need timing change
today if it's - 6 or so probably could
still buy the car maybe get some money
off of it because it's going to need
chains pretty soon where we're at with
this car I'm feeling pretty good about
that those numbers are great but for
real check
How to properly test drive a MK5 R32 before buying
[Music]
this test driving the car is going to be
vital and you need to do more than just
enjoy the sweet W noises that an R32 is
going to give you here's the things that
we're looking for noises rattles
vibrations does the steering wheel
waggle all around while you're driving
if you quickly let go of the steering
wheel does the car shoot off the road
hopefully that's not the case when you
break does the whole car vibrate when
you accelerate does the whole car
vibrate any warning indicators in the
dash make sure you're paying attention
to those for the mark 5 R32 specifically
you need to make sure that it shifts
through all the gears properly not only
in just normal drive not only in sport
which will give you a little bit more
aggressive shifting but you want to hit
the paddles too and make sure does it
downshift 654 does it upshift 456
because if it's not that could be
expensive and be really bad for me when
I'm driving this I'm also making sure
things like the wipers work the lights
work turn signals work horn works I also
obsess over things like Dash rattles
that may not bother you but it bothers
me so listen for stuff like that too and
really try to get a good feel overall
for the car I want to save some money
and get some money knocked off the
asking price so really like critique the
car pay close attention to what you find
and try real hard not to drive it like a
jerk when it's someone else's car I've
had that happen even though it's really
hard not to you may wonder what the heck
is up with these dangly fuzzy dice well
this car is actually a new addition to
the humble mechanic Fleet this is video
guy Ray's new Mark 5 R32 it's his first
VW what an awesome first Volkswagen to
have so we're going to make sure this
thing is great for him and you'll
probably see it in the future getting
all the things that we find wrong with
it in this video fixed and who knows
maybe maybe we'll do some hood rat stuff
we got oh speaking of hood rat is that a
cyber truck it was a cyber
How to check MK5 cabin filter
Tru next up is our interior inspection
now now this first thing I'm going to
show you might be a little controversial
but that's going to be checking the
pollen filter now this is not going to
tell you everything but it may be a good
indicator of how well the car was
maintained okay um ew I don't know how
old this pollen filter is but keep
looking at
that uh I have to say it old and busted
and
disgusting new hotness it's not a deal
breaker but for Real's get yourself a
new pollen filter you're breathing this
How to check MK5 interior
stuff what this was an
avocado what the hell oh my gosh ew it's
hard as a rock yo I want to cut it open
but I'm worried that's how the last of
us will start so we're not going to
we're not going to do
that it just exploded
look at that it's
just petrified I'm going to change my
gloves I don't know what the hell was on
that thing and that's why you always
check underneath all of the seats you
never know what you're going to find
also a good place to check to is going
to be in the door Pockets you might
remember the nasty mold that the
fahrenheit had uh I actually think that
was the reason the whole car got sad
Most common Mk5 R32 interior problems
also while you're here this is a vital
thing to check this is our door harness
that goes from the body of the car into
to the door one of the most common Mark
5 problems is for the wires inside of
here to get brittle and break the bad
part is I'm pretty sure these door
harnesses are Obsolete and fixing them
can be pretty tricky so make sure you
look at that and also make sure you
check everything inside the door the
locks the window the handle make sure
the mirror works when you're looking
underneath the seat for things other
than avocados remember there's
electronics under here this is the
amplifier for this this car you want to
make sure that you're checking for any
signs of water leaks wet carpet corroded
connectors smelly carpet's another big
one this is what happens when a water
leak in a VW goes unchecked moving back
to the trunk check these rubber boots
really common to have those break and
then the wire inside break then you have
no tail lights you can't open the trunk
Where is a MK5 R32 battery
it's a whole big thing the R32 has
something else special that you need to
be mindful of and that's the battery
located in the trunk I'm going to take
all this stuff out with all that out of
the way we can find what the heck are
all these screws from so this is our
battery cable this should be a fuse
panel right here really important on the
mark 5 make sure you don't have any
water in the trunk I have seen these
trunks flood water gets into the battery
box and that can make for a really
really bad day so I would pull all that
stuff out make sure you don't have any
damage to the battery underneath this
box here now we already did some scan
How to use a scan tool MK5 R32
tool work when we checked our chains but
I want to scan the rest of the car it's
going to give us so much information
what it won't tell us is why the heck we
have these fuzzy dice hanging from the
rearview mirror but that's neither here
nor there what you want to do for this
one is tap to scan it's the big button
in the middle of the screen just know
that you need to be patient cuz it will
take a couple of minutes to scan
everybody you want to make sure that
there's no hidden issues something like
a transmission fault very quickly can
turn into a deal breaker what we're
really starting to see now is a lot of
these transmission parts just aren't
available and that can leave you in a
real bad situation so in our
transmission address word 02 it's green
we don't have any faults that's awesome
it is really common on this generation
car to have a fault for the airbag in
the seat the one that's like right here
in the seat that's super common usually
it's not the bag usually it's the wiring
in the seat that's problematic there was
a recall on that in fact I think this
car has a bad door latch that is super
common so common that's a common VW
problem just like you can guarantee it's
going to have a water leak if you have a
transmission fault or some wild timing
faults that might be a car you want to
stay away from or work with the seller
and get it diagnosed before you spend
$112,000 don't feel weird about it if
the seller's got a problem with it that
is probably a pretty big red flag that
you should walk and find another car
Inspect Mk5 R32 tires
okay if you're meeting that Facebook
Marketplace weirdo in a parking lot
you're not going to be able to get the
car on the lift and do an undercar
inspection but there's still a bunch of
things you can check something that's
going to help you out a ton is turning
the wheel all the way left and all the
way right grab a penny I think they're
about to discontinue these but that's
okay and what we're going to do is we're
going to use old honest ab's head as an
indicator of our tread depth this
Continental is awesome because it has
wear bars so we're probably at about 4 4
30 seconds 3 30 seconds of tread 2 30
seconds time for new shoes make sure you
remember that we're not just looking at
the tread depth though you'll notice on
this outer edge here we have some
cracking some dry rotting so this tire
time for a new one which is okay cuz we
got RayRay some new tires and wheels
coming anyway but this is also a good
opportunity look at those brakes make
sure you got some pad in there make sure
there's no weird rotor wear or anything
like that this also gives us the
opportunity to look at our suspension we
can look at our axle boot our sway bar
end link just by cutting the wheel all
the way when you're under you also want
to look for any oil leaks coolant leaks
any wires hanging down and rello we got
a broken CV boot over here on our right
side okay so we're limited on our
parking lot inspection at some point you
got to get the car off the ground here's
the most important things you want to
look at now that our car's off the
ground this inspection is going to be
way more thorough and much easier you'll
notice right away we have no belly pan
great for our inspection uh but we need
to replace that we talked about the
stickers missing up top but the bottom
Most common MK5 R32 FRONT suspension problems
breaks a lot if your core support is
broken at the bottom that means your
radiator your condenser and if your
car's turbocharged your intercooler are
not properly secured I like to rotate
the fans by hand just make sure they're
not seized all these hoses want to make
sure nothing's leaking a really common
mark Mark 4 and Mark 5 thing is the
supports for the secondary air pump
breaking so like I can wobble this
secondary air pump all day long because
our mounts are broken we also have our
oil filter now I can almost guarantee
you that the inner part of the oil
filter this little silver part here is
going to be rounded out you can still
change the oil it just makes a little
bit more mess look over here on this
side we got our serpentine belt we got
some rollers we actually have a little
bit of oil that has leaked from our
valve cover all the way down here to the
bottom look at your wiring harnesses a
wiring harness hanging down a little bit
is not a big deal the main thing you
want to check is to be sure that your
fans aren't going to punch a hole
through it or rub a coolant line or
anything like that moving back a little
bit check your drain plug make sure it's
not all sad our dog bone we actually
have a 034 uh insert which is cool
there's also a bushing in the front of
the dog bone this bushing looks pretty
worn out so we're going to add replacing
the dog bone to our list we noted this
when the car was on the ground which is
why I like doing those initial
inspections but we now see the full
breath of our CV boot being split the
worst part about that job is definitely
going to be the cleanup but we also have
boot split for the tie rod end boot
split for the ball joints check your
ride height sensor because that's a
really common thing that people break on
the driver's side it actually looks like
our speed sensor wire and our brake
cable are kind of twisted up which
probably means means someone had the
caliper off and twisted the brake
caliper and then put it back on so
that's actually something before this
car rolls out of the shop that I'm going
to fix the final really common Mark 5
issue in this section under the car is
going to be worn out control arm
bushings you can replace each of these
bushings separately or depending on what
you're trying to do you could replace
the whole control arm it's really up to
you when you're checking underneath in
the center of the car you're basically
looking for any damage you'll notice we
got a hole right here in our undershield
not that big of a deal you also want to
check your exhaust make sure you don't
have any exhaust leaks same thing with
the gas tanks we don't want to have any
fuel leaks either look at your fuel
filter may give you an idea of when the
last time it was replaced which brings
us to the rear suspension and that my
friends is where things get a little bit
Most common Mk5 R32 REAR suspension problems
busy and we got a lot we need to check
I'm going to only focus on the driver's
side passenger side is basically the
same minus the ride height
which is right here you'll notice right
away that our sway bar in the back has
all the paint chipping off of it because
this is a rusty car from New York I'm
not worried about that because an
upgraded rear sway bar is one of my
favorite mods and usually one of the
first things I do for this suspension we
have one two three and then there's one
way up here you can't see four links on
each side and you want to look at the
ends there's actually bushings in a lot
of these end links like this one right
here it's probably pretty worn out so
basically Ally it's like this if your
car has 150,000 plus miles on it odds
are all of these pieces are likely worn
out it's expensive to replace all that
stuff but it's probably going to be
worth it especially on a performance car
like this checking the pinch welds is
STOP Lifting a MK5 R32 wrong
super important that's this rail right
here and you'll see where I have the
lift that's the place where you would
normally jack up the car but since
people don't like to do it right you get
Dealing with dishonest MK5 R32 sellers
these little chewed up bits right here
this is not bad but it's not all that
great either a lot of times you'll get
people they'll put a jack up underneath
it and just crank the crap out of the
car and mangle this whole lower piece
and it makes me really sad and I wish
people would stop doing that because
there's no reason for it this is not
necessarily a common problem but one
it's cool and two you want to take a
look at it this right here is the box
that the battery lives in so if you look
under here it's all mangled and smashed
up you might actually have some battery
problems while I was here it reminded me
though you need to look at the springs
on all Mark fivs and probably Mark sixes
they Rusk and you can even give them a
little wiggle or a Twist you can wobble
it all around your Spring's probably
broken so we covered a lot and overall
for 3,700 bucks I think it's a pretty
solid R32 the cool thing is there's
still plenty of great deals to be had
but there are some things that you
really want to make sure you pay
attention to think of them as red flags
if you will one if there's any warning
lights on the car and the seller tells
you a don't worry about it it's just
fill in whatever sensor oxygen sensor
oil pressure sensor whatever it's most
certainly not just that it's a real
problem just be aware that if it really
were a $20 sensor that would fix all the
problems on the car they probably would
have done that before they listed the
Is Buying a $3700 mk5 R32 Really Worth it?
ad- on Marketplace two and this one to
me in general has become a deal breaker
and that's rust we have a little bit on
this car it's going to be expensive to
fix if you can find one that has no rust
pay more money for that one it's going
to be a better play three think about
this these cars are dancing on being 20
years old and a lot of these parts were
specialty just to this car which means a
lot of things are starting to become
obsolete if you can get them great if
you can't get them new you're buying
them used and you're going to pay a
premium for it but with all that being
said there is something so amazing about
owning an R32 the community around the
R32 is unlike any other Niche car
community that I've ever been a part of
or involved with even this car gets
waves left and right it's super cool
oddly the red ones seem to draw the most
attention and fun fact they made less
red than any other car for every
generation so I think if you can find a
good deal do a quick inspection on the
car even after you do your initial
inspection it's likely worth taking it
to a VW Audi specialist and having them
do a proper thorough Deep dive check on
the car especially because you're
probably paying north of $10,000 even
for a mark 5 and you're probably paying
considerably more for a really nice
markv R32 so good luck in your R32 Quest
hopefully you can find the car of your
dreams which this is rays and he's
really excited about it so with that I'm
out have an awesome day I'll talk to you
again next time and I guess it's time to
get back to work on this thing I keep
hoping it'll finish itself but it never does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RHc03nMKmFU